CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to rancher/Rancher-Plugin-gMSA

Thank you for investing your time in contributing to our project!

In this guide you will get an overview of the contribution workflow from opening an issue, creating a PR, reviewing, and merging the PR.

## New contributor guide

To get an overview of the project, read the [README](README.md). Here are some resources to help you get started with open source contributions:

- [Finding ways to contribute to open source on GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/exploring-projects-on-github/finding-ways-to-contribute-to-open-source-on-github)
- [Set up Git](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/set-up-git)
- [GitHub flow](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/github-flow)
- [Collaborating with pull requests](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-pull-requests)


## Getting started

### Issues

#### Create a new issue

If you spot a problem with the docs, [search if an issue already exists](https://docs.github.com/en/github/searching-for-information-on-github/searching-on-github/searching-issues-and-pull-requests#search-by-the-title-body-or-comments). If a related issue doesn't exist, you can open a new [issue](https://github.com/rancher/Rancher-Plugin-gMSA/issues/new). 

#### Solve an issue

Scan through our [existing issues](https://github.com/rancher/Rancher-Plugin-gMSA/issues) to find one that interests you. If you find an issue to work on, you are welcome to open a PR with a fix.

### Make Changes

#### Make changes locally

1. Install [Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git) or [GitHub Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/)

2. Fork the repository.
- Using GitHub Desktop:
  - [Getting started with GitHub Desktop](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop/installing-and-configuring-github-desktop/getting-started-with-github-desktop) will guide you through setting up Desktop.
  - Once Desktop is set up, you can use it to [fork the repo](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop/contributing-and-collaborating-using-github-desktop/cloning-and-forking-repositories-from-github-desktop)!

- Using the command line:
  - [Fork the repo](https://docs.github.com/en/github/getting-started-with-github/fork-a-repo#fork-an-example-repository) so that you can make your changes without affecting the original project until you're ready to merge them.

3. Install or update to **Go 1.17**. For more information, see [the development guide](docs/developing.md).

4. Create a working branch and start with your changes!

### Commit your update

Commit the changes once you are happy with them. See [Atom's contributing guide](https://github.com/atom/atom/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#git-commit-messages) to know how to use emoji for commit messages.

### Pull Request

When you're finished with the changes, create a pull request, also known as a PR.
- Don't forget to [link PR to issue](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue) if you are solving one.
- Enable the checkbox to [allow maintainer edits](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/allowing-changes-to-a-pull-request-branch-created-from-a-fork) so the branch can be updated for a merge.
Once you submit your PR, a Rancher team member will review your proposal. We may ask questions or request for additional information.
- We may ask for changes to be made before a PR can be merged, either using [suggested changes](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/incorporating-feedback-in-your-pull-request) or pull request comments. You can apply suggested changes directly through the UI. You can make any other changes in your fork, then commit them to your branch.
- As you update your PR and apply changes, mark each conversation as [resolved](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/commenting-on-a-pull-request#resolving-conversations).
- If you run into any merge issues, checkout this [git tutorial](https://lab.github.com/githubtraining/managing-merge-conflicts) to help you resolve merge conflicts and other issues.

### Your PR is merged!

Congratulations :tada::tada: The Rancher team thanks you :sparkles:. 

Once your PR is merged, your contributions will be publicly visible on the [`rancher/Rancher-Plugin-gMSA`](https://github.com/rancher/Rancher-Plugin-gMSA).

Commit message:

Cherry pick changes from `release/v0.2` (#46)

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to rancher/Rancher-Plugin-gMSA

Thank you for investing your time in contributing to our project!

In this guide you will get an overview of the contribution workflow from opening an issue, creating a PR, reviewing, and merging the PR.

## New contributor guide

To get an overview of the project, read the [README](README.md). Here are some resources to help you get started with open source contributions:

- [Finding ways to contribute to open source on GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/exploring-projects-on-github/finding-ways-to-contribute-to-open-source-on-github)
- [Set up Git](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/set-up-git)
- [GitHub flow](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/github-flow)
- [Collaborating with pull requests](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-pull-requests)


## Getting started

### Issues

#### Create a new issue

If you spot a problem with the docs, [search if an issue already exists](https://docs.github.com/en/github/searching-for-information-on-github/searching-on-github/searching-issues-and-pull-requests#search-by-the-title-body-or-comments). If a related issue doesn't exist, you can open a new [issue](https://github.com/rancher/Rancher-Plugin-gMSA/issues/new). 

#### Solve an issue

Scan through our [existing issues](https://github.com/rancher/Rancher-Plugin-gMSA/issues) to find one that interests you. If you find an issue to work on, you are welcome to open a PR with a fix.

### Make Changes

#### Make changes locally

1. Install [Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git) or [GitHub Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/)

2. Fork the repository.
- Using GitHub Desktop:
  - [Getting started with GitHub Desktop](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop/installing-and-configuring-github-desktop/getting-started-with-github-desktop) will guide you through setting up Desktop.
  - Once Desktop is set up, you can use it to [fork the repo](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop/contributing-and-collaborating-using-github-desktop/cloning-and-forking-repositories-from-github-desktop)!

- Using the command line:
  - [Fork the repo](https://docs.github.com/en/github/getting-started-with-github/fork-a-repo#fork-an-example-repository) so that you can make your changes without affecting the original project until you're ready to merge them.

3. Install or update to **Go 1.24**. For more information, see [the development guide](docs/developing.md).

4. Create a working branch and start with your changes!

### Commit your update

Commit the changes once you are happy with them. See [Atom's contributing guide](https://github.com/atom/atom/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#git-commit-messages) to know how to use emoji for commit messages.

### Open Pull Requests

> *NOTE*
> 
> This repository maintains separate release branches for each major and minor version, in the format of `release/vX.Y` (e.g. `release/v0.2`). Primary development is done on the `main` branch. All PRs should be first raised against the `main` branch, unless they exclusively relate to a specific issue within one of the release branches. PRs are then ported into relevant release branches as needed.  

When you're finished with the changes, create a pull request, also known as a PR, targing the `main` branch
- Don't forget to [link PR to issue](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue) if you are solving one.
- Enable the checkbox to [allow maintainer edits](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/allowing-changes-to-a-pull-request-branch-created-from-a-fork) so the branch can be updated for a merge.
Once you submit your PR, a Rancher team member will review your proposal. We may ask questions or request for additional information.
- We may ask for changes to be made before a PR can be merged, either using [suggested changes](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/incorporating-feedback-in-your-pull-request) or pull request comments. You can apply suggested changes directly through the UI. You can make any other changes in your fork, then commit them to your branch.
- As you update your PR and apply changes, mark each conversation as [resolved](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/commenting-on-a-pull-request#resolving-conversations).
- If you run into any merge issues, checkout this [git tutorial](https://lab.github.com/githubtraining/managing-merge-conflicts) to help you resolve merge conflicts and other issues.

### Your PR is merged!

Congratulations :tada::tada: The Rancher team thanks you :sparkles:. 

Once your PR is merged, your contributions will be publicly visible on the [`rancher/Rancher-Plugin-gMSA`](https://github.com/rancher/Rancher-Plugin-gMSA).
